docs/content/building-from-source.md, before:

# Building from Source

Follow these instructions to either build **`SWS`** project from the source or the HTML documentation.

## Building project from source

If you want to build **SWS** from the source, all you need is a [Rust 2021 Edition](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2021/05/11/edition-2021.html) installed.

So make sure to install Rust [1.74.0](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2023/11/16/Rust-1.74.0.html) or newer (or nightly) along with [the toolchain(s)](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/toolchains.html) of your preference.

Then clone the repository and use [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/) to build the project from the source.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
cargo build --release
```

Finally, the release binary should be available at `target/release/static-web-server` or under your toolchain directory chosen.

!!! info "Don't use the project's `Makefile`"
    Please don't use the project's `Makefile` since it's only intended for development and some on-demand tasks.

## Cargo features

When building from the source, all features are enabled by default.
However, you can disable just the ones you don't need from the lists below.

Feature | Description
---------|------
**Default** |
`default` | Activates all features by default.
[**HTTP2/TLS**](./features/http2-tls.md) |
`http2` | Activates the HTTP2 and TLS feature.
[**Compression**](./features/compression.md) |
`compression` | Activates auto-compression and compression static with all supported algorithms.
`compression-brotli` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `brotli` algorithm.
`compression-deflate` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `deflate` algorithm.
`compression-gzip` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `gzip` algorithm.
`compression-zstd` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `zstd` algorithm.
[**Directory Listing**](./features/directory-listing.md) |
`directory-listing` | Activates the directory listing feature.
[**Basic Authorization**](./features/basic-authentication.md) |
`basic-auth` | Activates the Basic HTTP Authorization Schema feature.
[**Fallback Page**](./features/error-pages.md#fallback-page-for-use-with-client-routers) |
`fallback-page` | Activates the Fallback Page feature.

### Disable all default features

For example, if you want to run or build SWS without the default features like `compression`, `http2`, etc then just try:

```sh
# run
cargo run --no-default-features -- -h
# or build
cargo build --release --no-default-features
```

## Cross-compiling

If you want to cross-compile SWS then consider using [Zig](https://github.com/ziglang/zig) as [linker](https://andrewkelley.me/post/zig-cc-powerful-drop-in-replacement-gcc-clang.html) for [easier cross compiling](https://actually.fyi/posts/zig-makes-rust-cross-compilation-just-work/).

Let's say, you want to cross-compile SWS from macOS to Linux. Then follow these steps.

1. Add the necessary toolchain, for example just type: `rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` or `rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` if a statically-linked binary is wanted.
2. Install the latest [Zig](https://github.com/ziglang/zig) version via `brew install zig`
3. Install [cargo-zigbuild](https://github.com/rust-cross/cargo-zigbuild) via `cargo install cargo-zigbuild`
4. Finally, build SWS as follows:
    ```sh
    # dynamically-linked binary
    cargo zigbuild --verbose --release --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
    # or statically-linked binary
    cargo zigbuild --verbose --release --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
    ```

Built binaries can be found under the corresponding toolchain directory inside `target/`.

## Building documentation from source

All HTML documentation is located in the `docs/` project's directory and is built using [Material for MkDocs](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material).

It's only necessary to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) installed.

### Building documentation

By default the docs will be built in the `/tmp/docs` directory, to do so follow these steps.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
mkdir /tmp/docs
docker run -it --rm \
    -v $PWD/docs:/docs \
    -v /tmp/docs:/tmp/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
```

!!! tip "Output the docs in a different directory"
    If you want to output the docs in a different directory then append the `--site-dir=/new/dir/path/` argument to the *"squidfunk/mkdocs-material"* `build` command and make sure to provide the new directory path.

### Development server

If you want to improve the documentation then run the built-in development server via `docs/docker-compose.yml`.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
docker-compose -f docs/docker-compose.yml up
```

Now the server will be available at `localhost:8000`

Commit message:

feat: add `all` and `experimental` Cargo feature flags (#313)
* feat: `all` and `experimental` cargo feature flags
  - the `all` will host all available features (`default`) plus the
    `experimental`.
  - the `experimental` will only hold unstable features like for example
    `metrics` (as of writing)
* chore: enable the `all` cargo feature for freebsd

this feature also fixes #312

docs/content/building-from-source.md, after:

# Building from Source

Follow these instructions to either build **`SWS`** project from the source or the HTML documentation.

## Building project from source

If you want to build **SWS** from the source, all you need is a [Rust 2021 Edition](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2021/05/11/edition-2021.html) installed.

So make sure to install Rust [1.74.0](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2023/11/16/Rust-1.74.0.html) or newer (or nightly) along with [the toolchain(s)](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/toolchains.html) of your preference.

Then clone the repository and use [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/) to build the project from the source.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
cargo build --release
```

Finally, the release binary should be available at `target/release/static-web-server` or under your toolchain directory chosen.

!!! info "Don't use the project's `Makefile`"
    Please don't use the project's `Makefile` since it's only intended for development and some on-demand tasks.

## Cargo features

When building from the source, all features are enabled by default.
However, you can disable just the ones you don't need from the lists below.

Feature | Description
---------|------
**Default** |
`default` | Activates the default features by omission.
`all` | Activates all available features including the `experimental` feature. This is the default feature used when building SWS binaries.
`experimental` | Activates all SWS experimental features. Make sure to also provide the required `RUSTFLAGS` if the feature requires so.
[**HTTP2/TLS**](./features/http2-tls.md) |
`http2` | Activates the HTTP2 and TLS feature.
[**Compression**](./features/compression.md) |
`compression` | Activates auto-compression and compression static with all supported algorithms.
`compression-brotli` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `brotli` algorithm.
`compression-deflate` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `deflate` algorithm.
`compression-gzip` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `gzip` algorithm.
`compression-zstd` | Activates auto-compression/compression static with only the `zstd` algorithm.
[**Directory Listing**](./features/directory-listing.md) |
`directory-listing` | Activates the directory listing feature.
[**Basic Authorization**](./features/basic-authentication.md) |
`basic-auth` | Activates the Basic HTTP Authorization Schema feature.
[**Fallback Page**](./features/error-pages.md#fallback-page-for-use-with-client-routers) |
`fallback-page` | Activates the Fallback Page feature.

### Disable all default features

For example, if you want to run or build SWS without the default features like `compression`, `http2`, etc then just try:

```sh
# run
cargo run --no-default-features -- -h

# or build
cargo build --release --no-default-features

# or including all features (example)
RUSTFLAGS="--cfg tokio_unstable" \
    cargo build -vv --release --features all 
```

## Cross-compiling

If you want to cross-compile SWS then consider using [Zig](https://github.com/ziglang/zig) as [linker](https://andrewkelley.me/post/zig-cc-powerful-drop-in-replacement-gcc-clang.html) for [easier cross compiling](https://actually.fyi/posts/zig-makes-rust-cross-compilation-just-work/).

Let's say, you want to cross-compile SWS from macOS to Linux. Then follow these steps.

1. Add the necessary toolchain, for example just type: `rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` or `rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` if a statically-linked binary is wanted.
2. Install the latest [Zig](https://github.com/ziglang/zig) version via `brew install zig`
3. Install [cargo-zigbuild](https://github.com/rust-cross/cargo-zigbuild) via `cargo install cargo-zigbuild`
4. Finally, build SWS as follows:
    ```sh
    # dynamically-linked binary
    cargo zigbuild --verbose --release --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
    # or statically-linked binary
    cargo zigbuild --verbose --release --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
    ```

Built binaries can be found under the corresponding toolchain directory inside `target/`.

## Testing

```sh
# run tests for default features
cargo test
# or run tests for all features including experimental ones
RUSTFLAGS="--cfg tokio_unstable" cargo test --features all
# or run specific tests
cargo test --test rewrites
```

## Building documentation from source

All HTML documentation is located in the `docs/` project's directory and is built using [Material for MkDocs](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material).

It's only necessary to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) installed.

### Building documentation

By default the docs will be built in the `/tmp/docs` directory, to do so follow these steps.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
mkdir /tmp/docs
docker run -it --rm \
    -v $PWD/docs:/docs \
    -v /tmp/docs:/tmp/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
```

!!! tip "Output the docs in a different directory"
    If you want to output the docs in a different directory then append the `--site-dir=/new/dir/path/` argument to the *"squidfunk/mkdocs-material"* `build` command and make sure to provide the new directory path.

### Development server

If you want to improve the documentation then run the built-in development server via `docs/docker-compose.yml`.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server.git
cd static-web-server
docker-compose -f docs/docker-compose.yml up
```

Now the server will be available at `localhost:8000`
