docs/content/download-and-install.md, before:

# Download and Install

Latest **v2.15.0** release `2023-03-13` ([changelog](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/tag/v2.15.0), [sha256sum](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-SHA256SUM))

<div class="featured-downloads">

<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz">Linux 64-bit</a> <a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz">macOS 64-bit</a>
<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip">Windows 64-bit</a>
<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz">FreeBSD 64-bit</a>

</div>

See also all [available releases](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases) on GitHub.

## Installation methods

### Arch Linux

Via [Yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay) or your favorite AUR Helper.

```sh
yay -S static-web-server-bin
```

### NixOS

Via [Nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix) (Linux/MacOS)

```sh
nix-env -iA nixpkgs.static-web-server
```

### MacOS

Via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (also Linux)

```sh
brew tap static-web-server/static-web-server

# Just the binary
brew install static-web-server-bin

# Or build from source
brew install static-web-server
```

### Windows

Via [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/)

```powershell
scoop install static-web-server
```

## Binaries

Pre-compiled binaries grouped by CPU architectures.

### x86_64

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `b0a1a4da710452d34c7be6191fd0bd7c78d358543318a2e3fe927eb6df6ac3d5`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-gnu.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-gnu.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `c3af13b75958561078bcd299734048c1a21f84853f322ad64516c9a662b3da53`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `384667ec191d8bce1554b1eefa7014a7bfe9837c9765fd5cc82ea485c6fee186`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2b62591370ba2e7be6414cc38d14d98abdfdebe95bbfe8a1f526bff435899e46`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `8137b81713528a6a6de6600613e7317256670608b0faf9a3601e0560e55cc046`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2ca94dcaef7721157999b7dd7a1fff13da1be8699ad3047f10f32c2bfff87f09`</small>

### ARM64

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `e5eb5ceb45298a9b456447849afc81c3aeacb7d2602c25df4fd7091d8fafa90c`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `5603aed5a41ea7712c3fc331c829f02873e43f644bc21a0ce4f1b5522b811cbb`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `a2353068152abf24bb5b78337ea56875afc882b0b9d46c79c6753c0e8043da48`</small>

### x86

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-pc-windows-msvc.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `e499be91db507151fc14ffad5ecc179afa90da91bb755e589d4122d9ca9b95d1`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `239a9645037fa9c740e35035e2c7de192a0082f317788b77d720056e7cf11124`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `ad723df8c33b5eb4cbdfdeb7cc1ba12ac9d15fa0173fde5151154c1a7a721486`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `4eb62ca664cba8d91d5f4ab8c09c448945ccd688ac22bd8d1d3bb821563290e5`</small>

### ARM

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `86aeb2c6f2095e17c8e5fc488134233960068df93fbd068d839107d6531a065c`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `08089b209b59d734671f978e28cd21790202b7b4c325365f0a95489682cc9d7d`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2990e8e8150ebccc20451ef81412925c1efcbbc27e9769fc4011db127aa812de`</small>

## Source files

- [static-web-server-2.15.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/archive/refs/tags/v2.15.0.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `23ed292de7f8e6e172b4badfe2e409d3ea316b916de2b26c0e3361b7626e6e81`</small>
- [static-web-server-2.15.0.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/archive/refs/tags/v2.15.0.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `acd1cbc67065559cfc1224624217453732b8d33369e82b19f52bf7cc3e950d16`</small>

Commit message:

refactor: sws binary installer instructions
https://static-web-server.net/download-and-install/#binary-installer-linuxbsds

docs/content/download-and-install.md, after:

# Download and Install

Latest **v2.15.0** release `2023-03-13` ([changelog](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/tag/v2.15.0), [sha256sum](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-SHA256SUM))

<div class="featured-downloads">

<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz">Linux 64-bit</a> <a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz">macOS 64-bit</a>
<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip">Windows 64-bit</a>
<a class="md-button md-button-sm" href="https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz">FreeBSD 64-bit</a>

</div>

See also [the release history](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases) on GitHub.

!!! info "Docker"
    If you are working with Docker containers then check out [the Docker page](https://static-web-server.net/features/docker/).

## Installation methods

### Binary installer (Linux/BSDs)

Use our binary installer if your package manager is not supported.

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSfL https://get.static-web-server.net | sh
```

`static-web-server` should be installed under the `/usr/local/bin` directory.

### Arch Linux

Via [Yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay) or your favorite AUR Helper.

```sh
yay -S static-web-server-bin
```

### NixOS

Via [Nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix) (Linux/MacOS)

```sh
nix-env -iA nixpkgs.static-web-server
```

### MacOS

Via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (also Linux)

```sh
brew tap static-web-server/static-web-server

# Just the binary
brew install static-web-server-bin

# Or build from source
brew install static-web-server
```

### Windows

Via [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/)

```powershell
scoop install static-web-server
```

## Binaries

Pre-compiled binaries grouped by CPU architectures.

### x86_64

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `b0a1a4da710452d34c7be6191fd0bd7c78d358543318a2e3fe927eb6df6ac3d5`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-gnu.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-gnu.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `c3af13b75958561078bcd299734048c1a21f84853f322ad64516c9a662b3da53`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `384667ec191d8bce1554b1eefa7014a7bfe9837c9765fd5cc82ea485c6fee186`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2b62591370ba2e7be6414cc38d14d98abdfdebe95bbfe8a1f526bff435899e46`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `8137b81713528a6a6de6600613e7317256670608b0faf9a3601e0560e55cc046`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2ca94dcaef7721157999b7dd7a1fff13da1be8699ad3047f10f32c2bfff87f09`</small>

### ARM64

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `e5eb5ceb45298a9b456447849afc81c3aeacb7d2602c25df4fd7091d8fafa90c`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `5603aed5a41ea7712c3fc331c829f02873e43f644bc21a0ce4f1b5522b811cbb`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `a2353068152abf24bb5b78337ea56875afc882b0b9d46c79c6753c0e8043da48`</small>

### x86

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-pc-windows-msvc.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `e499be91db507151fc14ffad5ecc179afa90da91bb755e589d4122d9ca9b95d1`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-freebsd.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `239a9645037fa9c740e35035e2c7de192a0082f317788b77d720056e7cf11124`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `ad723df8c33b5eb4cbdfdeb7cc1ba12ac9d15fa0173fde5151154c1a7a721486`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `4eb62ca664cba8d91d5f4ab8c09c448945ccd688ac22bd8d1d3bb821563290e5`</small>

### ARM

- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `86aeb2c6f2095e17c8e5fc488134233960068df93fbd068d839107d6531a065c`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `08089b209b59d734671f978e28cd21790202b7b4c325365f0a95489682cc9d7d`</small>
- [static-web-server-v2.15.0-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/releases/download/v2.15.0/static-web-server-v2.15.0-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `2990e8e8150ebccc20451ef81412925c1efcbbc27e9769fc4011db127aa812de`</small>

## Source files

- [static-web-server-2.15.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/archive/refs/tags/v2.15.0.tar.gz)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `23ed292de7f8e6e172b4badfe2e409d3ea316b916de2b26c0e3361b7626e6e81`</small>
- [static-web-server-2.15.0.zip](https://github.com/static-web-server/static-web-server/archive/refs/tags/v2.15.0.zip)<br>
<small>**SHA256SUM:** `acd1cbc67065559cfc1224624217453732b8d33369e82b19f52bf7cc3e950d16`</small>
